# Object storage (Detailed Notes)

### Different type of storages

1.  Block Storage
      -  The storage is divided into small bits or bytes called blocks which have unique identifier.
      -  whenever any change is made instead of updating the entire storage,only the specific block
         is updated because of which this type of storages are very fast
      
      -  This are used for databases like relational database where individual pieces of file can be modified.

2.  File Storage
     -  This type of storage organizes the data into hierarichal manner into files and folders.
     -  Storage is divided into files,folders or directories and sub-directories.
   
3.  Object Storage
    -  The data called object is stored in flat structure called bucket.
    -  The key name prefixes,metadata and delimiters are used to organize data.

## Amazon S3(The infinite storage)
- AWS s3 is an object storage that can store virtually unlimited data into buckets.

#### Buckets

-  Buckets are containers that store objects.
-  1 - 100 buckets can be created per account,can be increased to 1000.
-  Features of buckets
    - buckets are owned by account and can't be transferred to other account.
    - buckets names are globally unique
    - buckets can't be renamed
    - bucket nesting is not allowed,unlimited objects can be stored
    - Conventions for naming buckets
           - names can be 3-63 chars long
           - can only contain lowercase letters,dots and hyphens (-)
           - start with lowercase letter or number
           - can't begin with xn--
           - not be formatted as IP address
           - only use dot if you are using the bucket for static site hosting.
          
 
 #### Introduction to objects

 - Objects are files and the metadata that describes the file.
 -  Max object size can be 5TB
 -  The key name uniquely identifies the object in the bucket. 
 -  Multiple variants of the object can be kept in the bucket using versioning.
              - Versioning is used to prevent unintended deletes
              - AWS provides unique version ID to each object uploaded.
 -  Value is the size of the object.
 -  Aws maintains object metadata such as creation date,size etc.
 -  Access to objects can be done using ACL and bucket policies.
 -  Tagging can be used to organize data
            -  A tag is a label that you assign to an AWS resource
            -  Tags consist of key and value pairs.
            -  Tags can be assigned to objects and buckets
            -  Max of 10 tags can be assigned to objects.    
